.TH SCORE 1 "Release 3.0" "Scoring Pkg"
.SH NAME
score - score and print results of a recognition systems output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B score
[ -ALIGN fname ] 
[ -LEX fname ]
[ -CODESET fname ]
[ -OUT_DIR dir_name ]
[ -CFG fname ]
[ -SPLTMRG fname ]
[ -LSUBS fname ]
[ -MONOSYL fname ]
[ -ALP_NUM fname ]
[ -SHCODE ]
[ -SHLSUBS ]
[ -SHALPHA ]
[ -SHMONO ]
[ -SHSPLT_MRG ]
[ -HOMO_ERROR ]
[ -SENT ]
[ -SPKR ]
[ -OVRALL ]
[ -OVRRAW ]
[ -OVRDTL ]
[ -DUMP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Score takes the output file of aligned sentences created by the 
align(1) program and scores (i.e. counts errors) the accuracy of
the recognition system.  The program can report results at several
different levels: sentence, speaker, overall detailed and an overall
summary.

If an invalid output directory [ -OUT_DIR dir_name ] is specified,
the reports are printed to stdout.  Otherwise, report files are
created within the directory.  The extension for sentence a level
report is ".snt",  ".spk" for speaker a level report, .sys_dtl for the
overall detailed report and ".sys" for the overall summary level.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "\fB-ALIGN fname\fP"
Change the default name of the input file-name of
aligned sentences from "ALIGNED_FILE" to `fname'
.IP "\fB-LEX fname\fP"
Change the default lexicon file-name to `fname'
This option will be overridden by subsequent CODESET definitions.
.IP "\fB-CODESET fname\fP"
Change the default pcodeset filename to `fname'
This option will be overridden by subsequent LEX definitions.
.IP "\fB-OUT_DIR dir\fP"
Give the Scoring program a directory to store
the printed reports in.  If this argument is not
used, or is an invalid directory, the program
prints reports to stdout
.IP "\fB-CFG fname\fP"
Set the configuration filename to 'fname',
see cfg.5 for the file format.
.IP "\fB-SPLTMRG fname\fP"
Change the default splits and merges file-name to `fname'
.IP "\fB-MONOSYL fname\fP"
Change the default mono-syllable file-name to `fname'
.IP "\fB-ALP_NUM fname\fP"
Change the default alpha_numeric file-name to `fname'
.IP "\fB-SHCODE\fP"
Print to stdout the currently used lexicon
.IP "\fB-SHLSUBS\fP"
Print to stdout the currently defined lexicon subsets
.IP "\fB-SHALPHA\fP"
Print to stdout the currently used alpha-numeric file
.IP "\fB-SHMONO\fP"
Print to stdout the currently used mono-syllable file
.IP "\fB-SHSPLT_MRG\fP"
Print to stdout the currently used splits and merges file
.IP "\fB-HOMO_ERROR\fP"
Count correct homophones as errors
.IP "\fB-SENT\fP"
Print scoring reports at the sentence level
.IP "\fB-SPKR\fP"
Print scoring reports at the speaker level
.IP "\fB-OVRALL\fP"
Print an overall scoring report
.IP "\fB-OVRRAW\fP"
Print an overall raw scoring report
.IP "\fB-OVRDTL\fP"
Print an "detailed" overall scoring report
.IP "\fB-DUMP\fP"
Print to stdout all of the changeable arguments from the command-line
.SH SEE ALSO
align(1), stats(1), cfg(5)
.SH BUGS
    If you see `em, smash `em!
