.TH WWSCOR 1 "Release 3.6.1" "Scoring Pkg"
.SH NAME
wwscor - score the recognition results based on Word Weights
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wwscor <OPTS> 

  OPTS  --> <DICT> | -ALIGN fname | [WWL_OPT] | [ <REPORT> ]
 
     DICT      --> -LEX fname | -CODESET fname 
     OPTIONS   --> -CFG cfg_fname | -DUMP 
     WWL_OPT   --> -W_1 | -W_PHN | -W_SYL | -WWL fname ....
     REPORT    --> -OVRALL | -SUM 


.SH DESCRIPTION
This program performs scoring by summing word weights to computing
error rates.  The weights can be defined either by internal C-source
code functions, or external Word Weight List (WWL), (see wwl(5) for a
file description).

The program accepts a binary alignment file, via the 'align fname'
argument, and processes each sentence to compute the following 
statistics for each sentence and speaker:

              __ 
    W(REF)  = \\   W(R ) 
              /_     i   
              i  
              __
    W(INS)  = \\   W(H )   if R  == 0
              /_     i        i     
              __
    W(DEL)  = \\   W(R )   if H  == 0
              /_     i        i     
              __
    W(CORR) = \\   W(R )   if R  == H
              /_     i        i     i
              __
    W(SUB)  = \\   Max[W(R ),W(H )] 
              /_         i     i     
                              if R  != H   (No Split/Merge)
                                  i     i
              __    
    W(SUB)  = \\   Max[W(R ),W(H )] 
              /_         i     i     
                              if R  != H  and a Merge
                                  i     i
              __         
    W(SPLT) = \\   Max[W(R ),W(H )] 
              /_         i     i     
                              if R  != H  and a Split
                                  i     i  

    %Corr   = W(CORR) / W(REF) * 100.0
    %Sub    = W(SUB)  / W(REF) * 100.0
    %Del    = W(DEL)  / W(REF) * 100.0
    %Ins    = W(INS)  / W(REF) * 100.0
    %Merge  = W(MERG) / W(REF) * 100.0
    %Split  = W(SPLT) / W(REF) * 100.0
    %Err    = (W(SUB) + W(DEL) + W(INS) + W(MERG) + W(SPLT)) 
                             /   W(REF) * 100.0

The program then prepares a report as defined by the <REPORT> options
defined below.  By default, the summary report "-SUM" is generated.

.PP
Options:
.PP 

.IP "\fB-ALIGN fname\fP"
Specify the binary alignment file created by align(1).

.PP
The <DICT> Options:
.PP

.IP "\fB-LEX fname\fP"
A lexicon file as described in "pcode.doc"
.IP "\fB-CODESET fname\fP"
A Table of Pcodes as described in "pcdtab.doc"

.PP
The <WWL_OPT> Options:
.PP

.IP "\fB-W_1\fP"
Use a weight of 1 for each word.  Using equal weights duplicates the 
standard scoring metrics.

.IP "\fB-W_PHN\fP"
Using the dictionary's phonetic representation of each word, use the
phone count as a weighting function.

.IP "\fB-W_SYL\fP"
Using the dictionary's phonetic representation of each word, compute
the estimated syllable count to be used as a weighting function.

.IP "\fB-WWL fname . . . \fP"
Use the externally defined word weight list file defined by 'fname'.
Up to 20 such files may be specified on the command line.  For a
detailed description of the file format, read the wwl(5) manual page.



.PP
The <REPORT> Options:
.PP

.IP "\fB-OVRALL\fP"
Create a report showing error rates for each speaker for each
weighting function as well as the system averages.  This report is
similar the "-ovrall" report generated by the score(1) program.  The
report is written to stdout.

.IP "\fB-SUM\fP"
Create a report summarizing the error rates over the entire system
computed by weighting function.  This report is written to stdout.  If
no report options are specified, by default this file is produced.


.SH SEE ALSO
align(1) score(1) wwl(5)
.SH BUGS
