.TH ctm 5 "Release 3.5.7" "Scoring Pkg"
.SH NAME
ctm - Definition of time marked conversation scoring input
.SH DESCRIPTION
This describes the time marked conversation input files to be used for scoring
speech recognizers via the NIST align() program.  Both the reference
and hypothesis input files share this format. 

The file format is a concatentation of time marks for each word in
each side of a conversation.  Each word token must have a conversation
id, channel identifier [A | B], start time, duration, and word text.
Optionally a confidence score can be appended for each word.

The file must be sorted by the first three columns: the first and the
second in ascii order, and the third by a numeric order.  The UNIX
sort command: "sort +0 -1 +1 -2 +2nb -3" will sort the words into
appropriate order.

Lines beginning with ';;' are considered comments and are ignored.
Blank lines are also ignored.

Included below is an example:

.RS
;;
.RE
.RS
;;  Comments follow ';;'
.RE
.RS
;;
.RE
.RS
;;  The Blank lines are ignored
.RE
.RS

;;
.RE
.RS
7654 A 11.34 0.2  YES -6.763
.RE
.RS
7654 A 12.00 0.34 YOU -12.384530
.RE
.RS
7654 A 13.30 0.5  CAN 2.806418
.RE
.RS
7654 A 17.50 0.2  AS 0.537922
.RE
.RS
      :
.RE
.RS
7654 B 1.34 0.2  I -6.763
.RE
.RS
7654 B 2.00 0.34 CAN -12.384530
.RE
.RS
7654 B 3.40 0.5  ADD 2.806418
.RE
.RS
7654 B 7.00 0.2  AS 0.537922
.RE
.RS
      :
.RE


For CTM reference files, a format extension exists to permit marking
alternate transcripts.  The alternation uses the same file format as
discribed above, except three word strings, "<ALT_BEGIN>", "<ALT>" and
"<ALT_END>", are used to delimit the alternation.  Each tag is treated
as a word, with a conversation id, channel and "*"'s for the begin
and duration time.

The alternation is begun using the word "<ALT_BEGIN>", and terminated
using the word "<ALT_END>".  In between the start and end, are at
least 2 alternative time-marked word sequences separated by the word
"<ALT>".  Each word sequence can contain any number of words.  An
empty alternative signifies a null word.

Below is and example alternate reference transcript for the words
"uh" and "um".


.RS
;;
.RE
.RS
7654 A   *    *   <ALT_BEGIN>
.RE
.RS
7654 A 12.00 0.34 UM
.RE
.RS
7654 A   *    *   <ALT>
.RE
.RS
7654 A 12.00 0.34 UH
.RE
.RS
7654 A   *    *   <ALT_END>
.RE
.RS
 




.SH SEE ALSO


