.TH SRO 5 "Release 3.0" "Scoring Pkg"
.SH NAME
sro - transcription conventions for .sro-like spontaneous speech
recognition output.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Below is the rule set for ATIS .sro transcriptions.  There use will be
for output of a spontaneous speech recognitionizer.  All rules need
not be implemented, they are there for presented for completeness.

The .sro conventions will be as follows:

1: Letter and number sequences will be spelled out (e.g. "DFW"
becomes "D F W" and "747" becomes "seven forty seven").

2: Words hyphenated in a standard dictionary (e.g. one-way) will
retain it's hyphen.

3: Verbally deleted words will be enclosed in '<' and '>'.  Ex.
<what> <is> <no> what does C U mean

4: Non-speech events will be enclosed in '[' and ']'.  The current set
of events is (but not limited to): [ah], [aside], [laughter], [cough],
[er], [grunt], [mm], [paper_rustle], [throat_clear], [uh], [um],
[unintelligible], [whisper]
            Ex.   [uh] what [um] does C U mean

5: Mispronounced words will be enclosed in '*' and '*'.
            Ex.   what *does* C U mean

6. False start words a marked by words with a '-' as the last character
of the word.
            Ex.  show me tr- transportation codes

7: Long pauses will be shown by ' . ' a period with spaces on
either side.  Each period represents about a 1 second pause.
            Ex.   what . does . . C U mean

8: These interpretation marks are allowed ':', ',', '!', '.'
            ':'  implies a vowel elongation
            ','  implies a phrase pause
            '!'  implies an emphasized letter
            '.'  marks a silence period

9: Verbal edits will be marked by edit queues.  A marker of the form
"(n)" where n is a number from 1 to 9 where mark the intended
insertion point.  Later in the sentence, the verbally edited words
will be marked in parenthesis in the form "(n word1 word2 ...)" where
n is the same number in the marker.
             Ex.  what does (1) flight one arrive (1 what date)

10: Words are case-insensitive.

.SH SEE ALSO


