.TH ALIGN 1 "Release 3.1" "Scoring Pkg"
.SH NAME
align - align sentence output of a speech recognition system for scoring
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B align  -HYP fname -REF fname <DICT>
<OPTIONS> -OUTFILE fname

     DICT ==> -LEX fname | -CODESET fname 
     OPTIONS ==> See Below

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Align takes a file containing hypothesis sentences from a speech
recognition system "-HYP fname" and performs a string alignment using
the reference transcriptions specified by "-REF fname".  Both the
reference and hypothesis files MUST be formatted according the the
specification below.  After all sentences for the system have been
processed, the structure containing the aligned sentences is written
to disk "-OUTFILE fname".

The program uses the dictionary defined by <DICT>.  If the "-LEX
fname" argument is used, the file is expected to be a file in the
format specified by (pcode.doc).  If the "-CODESET fname" arguement is
used, the file is expected to be a table of codesets as defined by
(pcdtab.doc).

.IP "\fBHypothesis and Reference file formats:\fP"
The hypothesis and reference files are to contain a set word tokens
for each utterance delimited by new-lines as follows:

UTT_STRING ::= <UTT-STRING> (<UTTID>) <NEW_LINE>

   where,
      UTT-STRING ::= (utterance word string)
      UTTID ::= (the corpus specific utterance id)

The corpus specific utterance id (selected using the ID-DESCRIPTION
options below) are formulated using the following guidelines:

  CORPUS            HYP                 REF
  ------     ------------------    ----------------
   ATIS         <ATIS3_ID>          <ATIS3_ID>

   N0TYPE        <UTT_ID>            <UTT_ID>

   NO_ID         "nothing"           "nothing"

   SPU_ID    <SPKR_ID>-<UTT_ID>   <SPKR_ID>-<UTT_ID>

   TIMIT      "same as SPU_ID"     "same as SPU_ID"
	
   RM        <RM_SPKR>-<RM_UTT>       <RM_UTT>

   WSJ           <CSR_ID>            <CSR_ID>

   SWB           <SWB_ID>            <SWB_ID>

     where SWB_ID :==
	 <4_digit_conversation>_<Channel>_<4_digit_segment>
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP

.IP "\fB-OUTFILE fname\fP"
Write a binary file of alignments to the file "fname".  If this option is
not specified, do not write the output file.
.IP "\fB-CFG fname\fP"
Read the file `fname' and interpret it as command line arguments.
.IP "\fB-DESC string\fP"
Give the system upto a 40 character string 
describing key attributes of the system
.IP "\fB-DUMP\fP"
Print to stdout all of the changeable arguments from the command-line
.IP "\fB-FRAG\fP"
Perform the alignment, then forgive substitution errors involving fragments
whose spelling is a super string of the hypothesized word.
.IP "\fB-HOMO fname\fP"
Change the default homophone list file-name 
to `fname'
.IP "\fB-LSUBS fname\fP"
Change the default file for lexicon subsets to
`fname'.  This arguement is for gathering stats
on certain parts of the lexicon.
.IP "\fB-NO_GR\fP"
Align the sentences assuming that the system 
did not use a grammar during computations
   - This means Homophone substitutions are not counted as errors
.IP "\fB-NAME string\fP"
Give the system a unique four character name for
identification throughout the scoring software
.IP "\fB-ONE2ONE\fP"
Define the relationship between the HYP and REF files.  The option
tells the sentence loading procedure to load the hyp and ref sentence as
pairs sequentially from each file, (i.e. The first line in the hyp file
matches the first line in the ref file).
.IP "\fB-ONE2MANY\fP"
Define the relationship between the HYP and REF files.  The option
tells the sentence loading procedure to first load the hyp file, then
scan the ref file and load the required reference sentence ID's.
.IP "\fB-PHONE\fP"
Perform the alignment using a distance  information in the pcodeset.  This option only works when a CODESET is defined
.IP "\fB-SHLEX\fP"
Print to stdout the currently defined lexicon or dictionary
.IP "\fB-SHLSUBS\fP"
Print to stdout the currently defined lexicon subsets
.IP "\fB-SHHOMO\fP"
Print to stdout the current homophone file
.IP "\fB-SILENCE\fP"
Ignore all occurences of the words "SILENCE" and "-PAU-"
.IP "\fB-SM\fP"
Perform the alignment, then rescore the alignments merging or splitting 
words if the split/merge figure of merit is greater than the number 
defined by the option -SM_FOM.
.IP "\fB-SM_FOM num
Set the figure of merit threshhold to 'num'.  Default value is 2.0.
.IP "\fB-TMK\fP"
Perform the alignment using input files in the tmk(5) format.
Distances for computing alignments are computed using time distances.
.IP "\fB-CTM\fP"
Perform the alignment using input files in the Conversation Time-Marked 
file format, ctm(5).  The Conversations and channels are marked
on each word, and the alignment program aligns them according to the
algorithm specified in 'convscor.txt' in the 'doc' directory of the
scoring package.
.IP "\fB-POOCE\fP"
When scoring conversations using the '-ctm' algorithm (see above), 
this flag Permits Out-Of-Channel Errors (POOCE) which skips the part
2.c of the algorithm defined in 'convscor.txt'.
.IP "\fB-WWF fname . . . "
After alignment, compute word weighted scores using the files Word
Wieght List (WWL) files, "fname ...", and print two report.

The first report, called <hypothesis_filename>.wwl_sys", shows error
rates for each speaker for each weighting function as well as the
system totals.  This report is similar the "-ovrall" report generated
by the score(1) program.

The second report, called <hypothesis_filename>.wwl_sys", summarizes
the error rates over the entire system computed by weighting function.

See wwl(5) for file format definitions and "wwscore.txt" for a
description of the word weighting scoring algorithm.
.IP "\fB-sum\fP"
Instead of creating the voluminous output created by default, just
create a scoring summary file called "<hypothesis_filename>.sys" in
the same directory as the hypothesis file.  This option is much
quicker than creating the output directory.
.IP "\fB-rsum\fP"
Like "-sum", create just a scoring summary file called,
"<hypothesis_filename>.raw", that containsc word counts instead of
percentages.
.IP "\fBUtterance id types:  (see description above)\fP"
- [ ATIS | RM | NO_ID | NTYPE | SPU_ID | TIMIT | WSJ | SWB ]
.SH SEE ALSO
codeset(5), lex(5), score(1), stats(1), tmk(5), ctm(5), wwl(5)
.SH BUGS
If you see `em, smash `em!
