.TH ENTROPY 1 "Release 3.0" "Scoring Pkg"
.SH NAME
entropy - Compute the entropy of the word confusion matrix based
on an alignment file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B entropy -ALIGN fname1 fname2 ...
[ -LEX fname ]
[ -CODESET fname ]
[ -LSUBS fname ]
[ -CFG file_name ]
[ -DUMP ]
[ -TEST ]
[ -DBG n ]
[ -DF file_name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Given one or more alignment files, create a word confusion matrix
then compute the entropy of the confusion matrix.  Due
to the extremely large size of the confusion
matrix is built in a disk file named by the '-DF' options.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "\fB-ALIGN fname\fP"
Supply the file names of the alignment files.
.IP "\fB-LEX fname\fP"
Change the default lexicon file-name to `fname'.
This option will be overridden by subsequent CODESET
definitions.
.IP "\fB-CODESET fname\fP"
Change the default pcodeset filename to `fname'
This option will be overridden by subsequent LEX definitions.
.IP "\fB-CFG fname\fP"
Read the file `fname' and interpret it as command line arguments.
.IP "\fB-DUMP\fP"
Print to stdout all of the changeable arguments from the command-line
.IP "\fB-TEST\fP"
Perform a couple programmed tests.  The performed are:

1. A confusion array with all 1's, Entropy : 4.6439

2. A confusion array with a diagonal of all 1's, Entropy : 2.3219

3: A confusion array with 4-1's and a 2, Entropy : 2.2516

4: A confusion array with a 4 and a 2, Entropy : 0.9183

.IP "\fB-DBG n\fP"
Set the Debug level to n, the currently defined values are:
   dbg flags: <= 0    = Run silent
              >  0    = Status messages
              >= 5    = analysis of all computations
              >= 9    = Dump of the disk array

.SH SEE ALSO
score(1), align(1)
.SH BUGS
If you see `em, smash `em!
