.TH WGSCORE 1 "Release 3.1" "Scoring Pkg"
.SH NAME
wgscore - score the hypothesis sentences from a recognition
system which imposed a grammar.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wgscore <OPTS> hyp_files ...
 
  OPTS  -->  -<CORPUS> | -ref fname | <DICT> | [ <OPTIONS> ]
               
     CORPUS    --> rm | wsj | timit | atis | swb | no_id |
                   notype | spu_id 
     DICT      --> -LEX fname | -CODESET fname | -autolex
     OPTIONS   --> <ALIGN_OPT> | <SCORE_OPT>
     ALIGN_OPT --> -phone | HOMO fname  | -frag | -tmk | 
                   -ctm | -pooce | -sm_fom num 
     SCORE_OPT --> -pralign | -sc_all | -sum | -rsum



.SH DESCRIPTION
Perform an alignment of all the hypothesis sentences contained in the
'hyp_files ...' then score the recognition accuracy for the system.
If the '-ref fname' option is used, the hypothesis transcripts will be
scored against that file of reference transcriptions.  By default the
transcript files must be formatted according the the specifications
set forth in 'align(1)', otherwise the options '-tmk' or '-ctm' redefine
the input file format.

By default, a directory will be created for the hypothesis file using
the name of the file with an appended '.scr' extension.  Located in
the directory will be the following files:

	<hyp>.ali     -> binary file of alignments.  

	<hyp>.sys     -> overall scoring summary for the system

	<hyp>.sys_dtl -> detailed overall scoring summary for the system

	<spkr>.snt    -> detailed sentence analysis for each speaker

	<spkr>.sum    -> detailed scoring summary for each speaker

	<hyp>.pralign -> text file of alignments.  Each sentence is
aligned with the reference sentence.  This file
is only present IF the "-pralign" option is used.

If a <CORPUS> type is "RM", "WSJ", "ATIS" or "SWB", the program will
use a configuration file supplied for that corpus in the 'lib'
directory of the scoring package distribution as well as force the
alignment program 'align' to properly interpret the utterance id's at
the end of each utterance transcriptions.

If the <CORPUS> type is "NO_ID", "NTYPE" or "SPU_ID", the utterance 
are interpretted as defined in 'align(1)'.  These options require a
reference file to be supplied as well as a <DICT> option.  

The <DICT> Options:

.IP "\fB-LEX fname\fP"
A lexicon file as described in "pcode.doc"
.IP "\fB-CODESET fname\fP"
A Table of Pcodes as described in "pcdtab.doc"
.IP "\fB-autolex\fP"
Automatically create a lexicon file from the hypothesis
and reference files.  Not this option requires a reference file to be
specified on the command line.

.PP
The <ALIGN_OPT> Options:
.PP

.IP "\fB-phone\fP"
The alignment is done using a phonemic distance function.  If this
option is used, the <DICT> option must be a CODESET.

.IP "\fB-frag\fP"
After the alignment, forgive substitution errors involving fragments
whose spelling is a super string of the hypothesized word.

.IP "\fB-tmk\fP"
The input files are time marked reference and hypothesis files.  See
tmk(5) for the file format.

.IP "\fB-ctm\fP"
The input files are time marked conversation reference and hypothesis
files.  See ctm(5) for the file format.  The Conversations and
channels are marked on each word, and the alignment program aligns
them according to the algorithm specified in 'convscor.txt' in the
'doc' directory of the scoring package.

.IP "\fB-sm_fom num\fP"
Perform the alignment, then rescore the alignments merging or splitting 
words if the split/merge figure of merit is greater than the number 
defined by 'num'.


.PP
The <SCORE_OPT> Options:
.PP

.IP "\fB-pralign\fP"
After the alignment, create a file of aligned text strings using the
program pralign().
.IP "\fB-sc_all\fP"
Create the output directory as described above.  This option is
neccessary only if another scoring option is used, and the output
directory is also requested.
.IP "\fB-sum\fP"
Instead of creating the voluminous output created by default, just
create a scoring summary file called <hyp>.sys in the same directory
as the hypothesis file.  This option is much quicker than creating the
output directory.
.IP "\fB-rsum\fP"
Like "-sum", create just a scoring summary file that contain word
counts instead of percentages.


.SH SEE ALSO
align(1) pralign(1) score(1) tmk(5) ctm(5)
.SH BUGS
If you see `em, smash `em!
