.TH wwl 5 "Release 3.6.1" "Scoring Pkg"
.SH NAME
wwl - Definition of an input word weight file
.SH DESCRIPTION
This describes the input word weight file (wwl) used by the wwscor(1)
word weight scoring program.  The file contains an ASCII header which
defines properties of the weights, and a list of lexemes with a set of
associated weights. 

The header consists of comment lines, (lines that begin with ';;').
Inside some comment lines are comment information strings which define
attributes of the file and the weights.  While the format of comment
lines is unrestricted, lines containing comment information strings
have a specific format.  Their format is:

.RS
;; '<COMMENT_INFO_STR>' '<VALUE>' [ '<VALUE>' ... ]

    where:

        COMMENT_INFO_STR :== "Default missing weight" |
                             "Labels"

        VALUE            :== (Context dependent values)
.RE

For the "Default missing weight", the value enclosed in single quotes
defines the weight given to lexemes not present in the list.  

The "Headings" string defines column headings for each column present
in the file.  The first heading must be "Word Spelling", the rest of
the <VALUE> strings define headings for each column of word weights.
There is compile time defined limit of 5 word weights per WWL file.

By default, the "Default missing weight" is zero, and the "Labels" for
each weight column are generated automatically.

The remainder of the file is a newline delimited list of lexemes.
Each line is a white space separated set of characters.  The first
string is the lexeme's spelling, followed by up to 5, white space
separated, floating point weights for that lexeme.  The format is:

.RS
<Spelling> <VALUE> [ <VALUE> ... ]
.RE

Included below is complete example of a WWL file:

.RS
;;
.RE
.RS
;;
.RE
.RS
;; Default missing weight '0.000'
.RE
.RS
;; 'Headings'  'Word Spelling' 'Un-Weighted Word'
.RE
.RS
                       i       0.530007
.RE
.RS
                     and       0.553526
.RE
.RS
                     the       0.572926
.RE
.RS
                     you       0.600906
.RE
.RS
                      to       0.618141
.RE
.RS
                       a       0.618516
.RE
.RS
                    that       0.632235
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
wwscore(1)

